---
icon: book-open
---

# What is a Clip

## Overview

In the context of Suno AI, the main generation feature is a clip. A clip is a generated song with the following structure:

* `id` A unique UUID of the clip.
* `title` A custom user-friendly title for the clip.
* `status` A unique state of the clip. Can be `queued`, `submitted`, `streaming`, `error` or `complete`. Based on this status, returned fields and their values can differ. These differences are described below.
* `audio_url` Contains the URL to the audio. The value can be in various forms:
  * If the clip is in `submitted` or `queued` status, then the value can be an empty string.
  * If the clip is in `streaming` status, then the value can be a URL to the currently streaming audio file, not the completed one.
  * If the clip is in `error` status, then the URL can be set to "None.mp3," indicating that generation was not completed successfully and the generated file is empty.
  * If the clip is in `complete` status, then clip generation is fully completed and it is ready to be downloaded.
* `image_url` Contains the URL to the generated image cover for the clip. In early stages of generation (queued/submitted statuses), this value can be an empty string.
* `video_url` Contains the video for the clip. The video is available only when song generation reaches complete status; otherwise, it will be an empty string.
* `model_name` Contains information about which model was used for generating this clip. List of available models you can find in the [model database](../../model-database/music-and-vocal-models.md#suno-ai).
* `created_at` An ISO string containing datetime when a clip generation request was sent and registered in the generation queue.
* `metadata` An object containing initial data for clip generation:
  * `duration` The duration of a clip in seconds. This value remains undefined until reaching complete status.
  * `prompt` Lyrics for a clip generated by GPT or custom ones.
  * `gpt_description_prompt` A prompt for GPT based on which titles, tags, and prompts can be generated automatically.
  * `tags` Keywords describing style elements related to this particular clip.
  * `task` The name of task suited for generating this clip. It can remain undefined if this is a first-time generation. For extended versions of any other clips, `extend` is used. Other tasks such as `cover` or `concat` are not currently supported by our API.
  * `history` Represents an operation history performed with respect towards any given project at hand: This includes extensions made over time with relevant timecodes & IDs detailing such extended versions created thereof. Each item/object included inside array follows below format notation specifics:
    * `id` The extended clip UUID
    * `continue_at` Timecode in seconds.

